
Lily Hay Newman
Security
Oct 6, 2025 6:00 AM
Vibe Coding Is the New Open Source—in the Worst Way Possible
As developers increasingly lean on AI-generated code to build out their software—as they have with open source in the past—they risk introducing critical security failures along the way.
Illustration of  and warped binary code
Photo-illustration: WIRED Staff; Getty Images


Just like you probably don't grow and grind wheat to make flour for your bread, most software developers don't write every line of code in a new project from scratch. Doing so would be extremely slow and could create more security issues than it solves. So developers draw on existing libraries—often open source projects—to get various basic software components in place.

While this approach is efficient, it can create exposure and lack of visibility into software. Increasingly, however, the rise of vibe coding is being used in a similar way, allowing developers to quickly spin up code that they can simply adapt rather than writing from scratch. Security researchers warn, though, that this new genre of plug-and-play code is making software-supply-chain security even more complicated—and dangerous.

“We're hitting the point right now where AI is about to lose its grace period on security,” says Alex Zenla, chief technology officer of the cloud security firm Edera. “And AI is its own worst enemy in terms of generating code that’s insecure. If AI is being trained in part on old, vulnerable, or low-quality software that's available out there, then all the vulnerabilities that have existed can reoccur and be introduced again, not to mention new issues.”

In addition to sucking up potentially insecure training data, the reality of vibe coding is that it produces a rough draft of code that may not fully take into account all of the specific context and considerations around a given product or service. In other words, even if a company trains a local model on a project's source code and a natural language description of goals, the production process is still relying on human reviewers' ability to spot any and every possible flaw or incongruity in code originally generated by AI.

“Engineering groups need to think about the development lifecycle in the era of vibe coding,” says Eran Kinsbruner, a researcher at the application security firm Checkmarx. “If you ask the exact same LLM model to write for your specific source code, every single time it will have a slightly different output. One developer within the team will generate one output and the other developer is going to get a different output. So that introduces an additional complication beyond open source.”

In a Checkmarx survey of chief information security officers, application security managers, and heads of development, a third of respondents said that more than 60 percent of their organization’s code was generated by AI in 2024. But only 18 percent of respondents said that their organization has a list of approved tools for vibe coding. Checkmarx polled thousands of professionals and published the findings in August—emphasizing, too, that AI development is making it harder to trace “ownership” of code.

Open source projects can be inherently insecure, outdated, or at risk of malicious takeover. And they can be incorporated into codebases without adequate transparency or documentation. But researchers point out that some of fundamental backstops and accountability mechanisms that have always existed in open source are missing or severely fragmented by AI-driven development.

“AI code is not very transparent,” says Dan Fernandez, Edera's head of AI products. “In repositories like Github you can at least see things like pull requests and commit messages to understand who did what to the code, and there's a way to trace back who contributed. But with AI code, there isn't that same accountability of what went into it and whether it's been audited by a human. And lines of code coming from a human could be part of the problem as well.”

Edera’s Zenla also points out that while vibe coding may seem like a low-cost way to create bare-bones applications and tools that might not otherwise exist for low-resource groups like small businesses or vulnerable populations, the ease of use comes with the danger of creating security exposure in these most at-risk and sensitive situations.

Most Popular
Why the Hottest New Wearables Want to Be Ignored
Gear
Why the Hottest New Wearables Want to Be Ignored
By Andrew Williams
George Santos Just Got Hit With Kalshi’s First-Ever Lifetime Ban
Business
George Santos Just Got Hit With Kalshi’s First-Ever Lifetime Ban
By Kate Knibbs
You Know Who Really Hates AI? Insurance Claims Adjusters
Artificial Intelligence
You Know Who Really Hates AI? Insurance Claims Adjusters
By Kate Taylor
Dyson’s Next Act Is an Electric Toothbrush With a Camera
Gear
Dyson’s Next Act Is an Electric Toothbrush With a Camera
By Julian Chokkattu
“There's a whole lot of talk about using AI to help vulnerable populations, because it uses less effort to get to something usable,” Zenla says. “And I think these tools can help people in need, but I also think that the security implications of vibe coding will disproportionately impact people who can least afford it.”

Even in enterprise, where financial risk largely falls to the company, the personal fallout of a widespread vulnerability introduced as a result of vibe coding should weigh heavily.

“The fact is that AI-generated material is already starting to exist in code bases,” says Jake Williams, a former NSA hacker and current vice president of research and development at Hunter Strategy. “We can learn from advances in open source software-supply-chain security—or we just won't, and it will suck.”

You Might Also Like
In your inbox: Maxwell Zeff's dispatch on the business of AI

Why normal people aren’t using AI agents

Big Story: How data centers broke American politics

Hackers stalked me by hijacking a cheap pink plastic watch

Special edition: The WIRED guide to expanding your mind

Lily Hay Newman is a senior writer at WIRED focused on information security, digital privacy, and hacking. She previously worked as a technology reporter at Slate, and was the staff writer for Future Tense, a publication and partnership between Slate, the New America Foundation, and Arizona State University. Her work ... Read More
Senior Writer
Topics
software
artificial intelligence
security
open source
cybersecurity
vulnerabilities
hacking
Read More
Tech Visionary Says the Big AI Labs Don’t Get What People Want
Tech Visionary Says the Big AI Labs Don’t Get What People Want
Tim O’Reilly built a publishing empire that AI is helping to destroy. Yet he loves AI—as long as it’s open source.
Steven Levy
Your Expired Visa Card Could Be ‘Zombified’ to Make Contactless Payments
Your Expired Visa Card Could Be ‘Zombified’ to Make Contactless Payments
Plus: Apple sends out an “unprecedented” number of spyware warnings, Ukraine hits a Russian ecommerce giant with cyber and drone attacks, and more.
Andy Greenberg
This Is How Anthropic Thinks AI Agents Should Navigate the Physical World
This Is How Anthropic Thinks AI Agents Should Navigate the Physical World
The potential for AI to automate scientific research and manufacturing must be balanced with new risks, Anthropic says.
Will Knight
The Cybersecurity Apocalypse Is Coming in ‘Months,’ AI Giants Warn
The Cybersecurity Apocalypse Is Coming in ‘Months,’ AI Giants Warn
Plus: Hackers target over 100 US water systems, ICE puts in an order for robot dogs, and you’ll never guess what “MrChildPorn” was arrested for.
Maddy Varner
Why the Hottest New Wearables Want to Be Ignored
Why the Hottest New Wearables Want to Be Ignored
Burnt out on wrist buzzes and notification overload? A new crop of minimalist wearables promises to collect your health data without demanding your attention.
Andrew Williams
He Scraped All of Their Art for AI. Now He’s Collaborating on a Tool to Help Them
He Scraped All of Their Art for AI. Now He’s Collaborating on a Tool to Help Them
The art portfolio platform Cara, designed for creators who don’t want their work used to train AI, has been under assault by trolls seizing and publishing its data.
Miles Klee
Silicon Valley Doesn't Get Why You Hate AI
Silicon Valley Doesn't Get Why You Hate AI
Technology leaders don’t seem to understand society’s gripes about AI, but boy, are they posting through it.
Maxwell Zeff
The Powerful Chinese AI Model Experts Warned About—and Waited for—Is Here
The Powerful Chinese AI Model Experts Warned About—and Waited for—Is Here
Z.ai’s latest AI model release could help companies secure their systems—or find its way into the hands of hackers.
Will Knight
What We Still Don’t Know About OpenAI’s Hugging Face Hack
What We Still Don’t Know About OpenAI’s Hugging Face Hack
The AI giant acknowledges that it could have done far more to prevent its AI agents from going rogue. But it still fails to explain why it didn't see this fiasco coming.
Maxwell Zeff
AI Has Human Doctors Asking: What’s Left for Us?
AI Has Human Doctors Asking: What’s Left for Us?
A recent paper argues that AI is often better at doctoring than doctors. Guess who isn't thrilled.
Steven Levy
OpenAI Overhauls Safety Protocols After Its AI Agents Went Rogue
OpenAI Overhauls Safety Protocols After Its AI Agents Went Rogue
The ChatGPT maker says its upcoming Astra model may have reached “critical” cyber capabilities, prompting it to halt a significant number of training runs while it tightens internal safeguards.
Maxwell Zeff
Coders Say They Already Found Workarounds to Claude’s Invisible Watermarks
Coders Say They Already Found Workarounds to Claude’s Invisible Watermarks
Anthropic announced last week it would include invisible watermarks in AI-generated content to comply with new EU rules. Within hours, overrides were being touted online.
Isabella Ward
WIRED
WIRED is obsessed with what comes next. Through rigorous investigations and game-changing reporting, we tell stories that don’t just reflect the moment—they help create it. When you look back in 10, 20, even 50 years, WIRED will be the publication that led the story of the present, mapped the people, products, and ideas defining it, and explained how those forces forged the future. WIRED: For Future Reference.
More From WIRED

SubscribeNewslettersLivestreamsTravelFAQContact UsWIRED StaffWIRED EducationEditorial StandardsArchiveRSSSite MapAccessibility Help
Reviews and Guides

ReviewsBuying GuidesStreaming GuidesCoupons
AdvertiseManage AccountJobsPress CenterCondé Nast StoreUser AgreementPrivacy PolicyYour California Privacy Rights
© 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices

Privacy Information
